---
layout: post
title:  "The False Promise of the Digital Humanities"
date:   "2022-12-14"
---
“Technology Is Taking Over English Departments” by Adam Kirsch

Right away, this article by Adam Kirsch states some facts that I have been curious to see in writing. Mainly that the digital humanities is a “growth industry” (paragraph 1) and that it is easily influenced by whatever is a strong topic, bouncing around constantly. They even quote a reporter saying that “the digital humanities seem like the first ‘next big thing’ in a long time” (1) which is something that a lot of people say when I tell them about the digital humanities. It is definitely an exciting field, but as they state in the second paragraph, the “field [is] suffering an identity crisis” (2). Defining the digital humanities is difficult if not impossible, but that is only a side point of this article.

One of the main points of this article is how the digital humanities are changing the humanities overall. People do not write books or essays on paper anymore, they use their computers. The same can be said about the humanities. Why analyze the music sheets Mozart wrote by hand when we can upload them to a computer and make a tool to do it?  That way we can share our analysis more easily and while building the tool might be hard, it is easier to build a tool once and use it then keep analyzing the paper over and over again. This is where I truly agree with a quote from Ramsay in the article that states “Digital Humanities is about building things” (10) because the field is an ever-expanding city where new buildings are getting put up every year.

Computers allow us to do so much more than we ever could before, either by making it easier or by adding new functionality. It is not surprising that there is a field of the humanities built around using computers. The question is, how will a field like this that is constantly growing look five or ten years from now? Will it truly separate from the humanities in the sense that computers end up doing almost all the work and it becomes another field of computer science? It is hard to say, but I feel like it is not impossible that the digital humanities get flooded with programmers and engineers as building things is such a key part of the field right now. Maybe in five to ten years, digital humanities will have a clear definition everyone can agree on, but I doubt it.
