---
layout: post
title:  "History of Books"
date:   "2022-12-18"
---
“What Is the History of Books? | Archaeology of Reading,” August 30, 2016.

The article does exactly what is says it is going to do, describing the history of books. Biblogrophers or the people who study books are a very interesting group of people. As mentioned in the article, they care about what materials books were created with along with factors like spelling, punctuation, language, etc. They even cared about individual books more as that physical single book is an artifact from the time as everything from its state of preservation is valuable in the study of that book (paragraph 2). Biblogrophers is definitely an interesting area of study and one I have actually heard about before, but never in so much detail. Of course, when studying the history of books, I find it not surprising that they would know the most out of everyone as they have always studied how books were made and preserved. 

One of the most interesting things about this article is an idea brought up in the third paragraph when they mention the book “The Coming of the Book”. This book argued that the introduction of printed texts radically changed the world of western Europe and I totally can see how but I would love to learn more about why that happened. Was it that knowledge was easier to spread as they mentioned later or was it something else about just how people viewed books as a culture? As mentioned later in the article, the invention of the printing press was a huge changing point as books got a lot cheaper to make. This meant that more people could afford books and more people could afford to make their own books!

In the end, they introduce the idea that we are currently going through another changing point right now with the introduction of digital media. While someone could argue that this happened years ago I have to agree that it is only getting more noticeable as time goes on. Websites like Wikipedia or amazon books are constantly being updated and digital books are becoming cheaper and cheaper as a result. There is definitely a lot of information online and I can’t predict how the view on books would be years from now. A few years ago people loved physical books, and while that is still mostly a thing, I hear more people using audio and digital books every day. I personally switched to digital books as it was cheaper than physical books a few years ago. 