---
layout: post
title:  "Digital Humanities & APIs"
date:   "2022-12-14"
---
“Getting Data for Digital Humanities with APIs: A Gentle Introduction” by Abigail Walker

To start off this article defines what an API or Application Programming Interface is. It defines it as a way for software systems to talk to each other (paragraph 1). While I don’t fully agree with that definition, it is not wrong as the main purpose of APIs is for one machine to get information from another machine. I generally think of APIs as just special database queries that are provided by the developer to let others interact with their data or software easier, but the article does mention other APIs like APIs that never get seen by humans and are only between machines, so my understanding could definitely just be misinformed by the APIs I know (2).

With all that being said, what do APIs have to do with the digital humanities? The simple answer is a lot. APIs can be used for many things such as downloading data live to interact with other software (like an app extension) as I mentioned earlier. If your digital humanities project does not have all the data locally saved, you likely will use some type of API to extract it from the desired database or server where it is stored.

The surprising part to me is that Abigail Walker mentions how APIs are being embraced by libraries, archives, and museums. Normally I would think that these resources would store all their data locally, but as Abigail said they can use this technology to “more automatically provide or enhance access on their websites” (9). Why search for each book cover and download it individually when you can make an API call that does the same thing? The more I think about it, the more I wonder how many modern-day services have switched to using APIs. Abigail mentioned how even the hours the cafe is open at the Cooper Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum is on a public API which means google or any other app can get accurate results about whether the store is open or not. So with all this information, it is not a surprise that APIs are used in the field of the digital humanities. If a cafe can use an API effectively why would some digital humanity projects not do it? 
