---
layout: post
title:  "The Digital Humanities"
date:   "2022-09-25"
---
“The Digital Humanities: A Primer for Students and Scholars" by Eileen Gardiner and Ronald Musto

The question the introduction of this piece tries to answer is, what are the digital humanities? Unlike asking a physicist to define gravity, there is no clear definition of the digital humanities (1). Some describe it as the practice of humanities scholars collaborating “with computer scientists to build tools that [facilitate] the work of the digital humanities” (3), but that definition does not fully describe what the digital humanities are. Anne Burdick gives a more general definition in their book Digital_Humanities, “[Digital humanities] asks what it means to be a human being in the networked information age…” (4). I like this definition as it clearly defines the difference between the humanities and the digital humanities. 

After coming back to re-read the article, my definition of the digital humanities stays the same. That is that the digital humanities are the study of what it means to be human in the age of the internet. Often we do this through the use of technology as technology can better help us study the humanities, but the use of digital tools is not a mandatory part of the digital humanities. I know this definition can be imprecise, but there are many different fields of the digital humanities.

The problem is, this definition raises many different questions. I have been asked what the digital humanities are many times and it seems to mean different things to different people. My most recent conversation ended with the other individual restating to me that the digital humanities is the study of data science but with a social science approach. Now while this definition is not right, it is not wrong either. The question is, why is it not right? Many digital humanities projects involve sorting through data like a data scientist but with a different (or similar) outlook at the conclusion. 

According to the above article and my conclusions from it, the definition given in that conversation was too specific and focused on the data and project side of digital humanities, but other sides do exist. It is just hard to give a good definition for the digital humanities, and this definition is not the worst out there.