---
layout: post
title:  "Visual Literacy"
date:   "2022-12-17"
---
“Why visual literacy is essential to good data visualization” by Ben Dexter Cooley

This article by Ben Cooley is short but well thought out. Data literacy is something that I have kinda heard mentioned before, and as mentioned at the begging of the article, there is people out there at big companies whose job is to make data as understandable and perfect as possible. Their job is literally to analyze and manage the company's data, but as talked about in this article here, that is only the first step. We also need to analyze and perfect how we present our data through visual literacy. 

Ben Cooley talks about this in a rather smart way, by talking about truth and beauty. They are not always polar opposites, but it is a great example. When displaying data, it can be either extremely truthful and just be tables of data, or it can be a beautiful masterpiece including art and interactive elements. The goal is somewhere in the middle where the data is both true, and gives the same results the unfiltered data does, but is beautiful enough that the reader can easily understand it. The question is how is that done? I bet it changes depending on who you ask, with each person preferring something different. People with jobs who read and write reports for a living might prefer a well-written report over anything else. Despite that, I feel like the average citizen would prefer something a bit more visual or infographic. 

Overall there is not much more to the article. It brings up some important information that many people, including me, probably thought about subconsciously but never actually put into words until now. Data literacy is a very popular topic right now, but visual literacy is not. I when or even if that will change as while data literacy is important, I would argue visual literacy is more important. Who cares about the data being the best data ever if no one can understand the data?